# Unified Logging

So, you have an application instance running in Nalej platform, with several services in several service groups executing across several clusters. And then something goes wrong.

You are sure it's just a little (and solvable) error, but you have no way of knowing that for sure unless you check the instance logs. The only problem is that the logs are scattered through all the clusters where the application instance is executing, and it's impossible to know where the error might be hiding. What to do? Well, ask the **unified logging** feature, of course.

## What is **Unified Logging**?

**Unified logging** is a feature that retrieves all the logs generated by an instance in all the clusters, and presents them in a neat list. From that list, we can filter the logs by service group or by a *filter string*.

When the app instance is undeployed, the system deletes all the associated logs, so please be sure to check it while it is in the system!

## How do I use it?

This feature is accessible only through the Public API CLI by now. So, first you need to connect to the server with the Public API CLI.

Then, you need to obtain the instance ID, which can be done with:

```bash
./public-api-cli app instance list
```

This will return a list of all the instances deployed in the server. Find yours, and copy its `instanceID`. Then, to see the logs associated to it, execute:

```bash
./public-api-cli log search 
	--instanceID "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
```

All the logs associated to this instance will appear. This can be overwhelming, since the application may have several services running, and thus we can filter the logs

